
Using Gear Creator Blueprint

1. Go to Blueprints folder and duplicate 'Standard' bluprint to 'Your_Gear_name'. Ex: Gear_27 (for gear mesh 27) 
*Keep the Standard as default.
2. Drag 'Gear_27' to your scene. (If you are using more than one (and wish to alternate the meshes) you can duplicate it before make your changes)
3. Right click in the gear > Edit 'Gear_27'
4. With Gear selected, change your gear mesh. On Details Panel, select Cog and Amount.
5. Compile and Save

*Gear Creator level available. Levels > Gear_Creator.
*Keep the original (Standard_Only) as it is for duplication.
*Optional: If you prefer to work only with meshes in your scene, you can Convert Gear_27 to Static Mesh after perform your changes. Right click in the gear and Convert Gear_27 to Static Mesh.
*Adjust Gear mesh, gear radius, gog mesh, cog radius and amount as you wish.

How to set up your Gear Manually

1. Select and drag a Gear you want to use.
2. Select and drag a Cog (teeth) you want to use and drag it to the selected Gear to start to create a Cogwheel.
5. Duplicate the Cogwheel and rotate as you wish following the Gear silhouette.
6. When done with the Cogwheel, drag the group as new subgroup of your Gear and keep everything as
just one object.
7. On Free Size Level you will find a Level Blueprint with a reference to the Gear object and set the
direction and speed as you wish.

The material (TexelDensityTest) available on Material folder help you to quickly visualize the Texel Density of the meshes. 
The Cogs look different in the Gears level because they are resized to be seen by the camera.
See Demo scenes to have a better idea.


Tips:

1. Mount the Gear on a flat surface and move to your object after mounted.
2. You can duplicate a Gear and change the Gear and Cog meshes to create a variety of Gears.
3. Duplicate (Cogwheel) groups to set your gear quickly, when finished drag all Cogs to the same group
(Cogwheel) and keep it clean and organized.
4. Use math to help you to duplicate and change Gear sizes if you want to keep the same pace and space among the Cogs.
5. Different Gear sizes (ratio) requires different speed to match with other Gears.


Changing your Gear

1. In the World Outliner select your Gear object (StaticMesh).
2. Go to Details > Static Mesh and select another gear mesh.

Changing your Cog (teeth)

1. In the World Outliner select all Cogs objects (StaticMesh).
2. Go to Details > Static Mesh and select another cog mesh.


*Credit and thanks to Icy Quasar for share the Gear_Creator Blueprint idea! Wel done Icy!

Regards and good work!

Any suggestion please contact me on: megapackassets@gmail.com